@amitorit
@biellaColeman
@astradisastra
@remy_d

@amitorit
This will be ultimately an open exchange.

@biellaColeman:

I'll just tell you what we're going to do. Each one of us will present some
material, give some context for 10-15 minutes, then sit up here and have a
conversation about eachothers books/work, then open it up.

If you have questions, please interrupt. I want to the thank Amit for the
invite.


What I'm going to give is a basic intro to anonymous, so you have some
signposts that will help with discussion.

Book was published, originally, looking like this, which editors thought
looked too much like an 80's video game. We moved to the brand image you see
today. You'll notice the subtitle was gone. I was clear that I didn't want a
subtitle that said the "story of anonymous." For reasons that will become
clear, you'll see why I picked the many faces.


Why study a faceless group like a maze? I spent a lot of time in IRC. I spent
5-7 hours a day. That was where the great majority of my research happened. I
was a "go-fer" for journos and anons. I took them to IRC, and spent an
enormous amount of time translating the world of anonymous. Part of my
research migrated from online to meeting arrested hackers, like Jeremy
Hammond. I went to prisons, and trials. If you were arrested in UK, you got
out quicker than the US. This is me with 4 members of Anon/Lulzsec, who are
now out of jail at the royal court theatre.


The book would not have been possible if not for the people who were arrested.
Anonymous is difficult to define. It was an exciting entity to research, and
one difficult to put your finger on. Multitudinous, prolific, unpredictable.
It is difficult to forecast their next "steps." When I had mentioned there are
many faces, there are many facets:
    
    It is a protest movement
    a communal idea
    symbol for popular revolt
    competing tactics/groups
    fantasy/political possibility
    laboratory for experimenting in self-effacement and anonymity
    
It is very frowned on to seek fame or recognition. They have been involved in
over 200 operations around the world. It is hard to say any universal
statement about the political effect of their operations yet. Michelle
Foucult(sp) The real political task in a society such as ours is to
criticize...

This image, from #OpFerguson, really captures that.


If it is about activism, it is also a historical aberration. Anonymous was
synonymous with internet trolling, a common form of pranking. Anonymous wasn't
the only group, but did get famous for internet trolling. In case you don't
know what it is, it can take many forms and formats. A celebrity troll, Weave,
is trying to be as offensive as possible. Here is an image from 4chan that
started in 2010, when they were trying to troll me. Thankfully this didn't
take off, but if it did, I would have gotten doxed, and hundreds of pizzas
delivered to my house...

Trolls enjoy desecrating anything remotely sacred.

If you ask, Why, the say "for the lulz."

6 months after they were designated the "internet hate machine" they u-turned
into activism. How did this machine get put into a new realm?

Tom Cruise, is in part responsible for this. There was a video, leaked by
"little-a" anonymous, who were critics of the church of Scientology. It was a
recruitment video that spread like wildfire. The church threatened big time.

A number of people collaborated to make this video, which I'm going to play 40
seconds of...

What happened next, critics of the church reached out to anons and said "hey,
maybe you should challenge the church."

They went ahead and organized a global day of street protests in 100+ cities,
thousands of people showed up to protest at churches. This was the moment of
transition. Operation Chanology was a monthly action that happened. By
2011-12, it had been used by diff groups and individuals from occupy to Arab
spring. Trolling continued to be used as a tactic.

There is much more to say, but I'm going to turn it over to Astra

@astradisasta

I live a rather powerpoint free lifestyle, thankfully.

Noam Chomsky. I'll begin with him cause he was a double influence.
Manufacturing Consent, planted some seeds.

I went on to direct feature length films on philosophy... he is an influence
on my film-making, but also my book.

What is the progressive media critique now? The chomskyan critique was
somewhat discarded.

Consolidation
Centralization
Commercialism

Too much writing on digital revolution focuses on the revolution, but there
has been much carry-over. The media dinosaurs have not been vanquished... The
news guys haven't just defeated the old ones, they collaborate in troubling
ways.

Speaking to commercialism, manufacturing consent to manufacturing compulsion.
The underlying sense changes how we think about art and business. More is
better. The pathology of the advertiser driven model. So many
"free-in-name-alone" services.


The book talks about different aspects of this: IP, Net Neutrality, but
railing against advertising and commercialism. Not just because it is
irritating, but because of so much of what happens with databrokers and
collection can lead to discrimination. Now the databrokers can follow you
around and read your email, gathering info all the time, and using it to
target marketing and discriminate. I've killed my "real" persona on Facebook,
and I have another that does activism. Mostly I'm in touch with people
attending a for-profit colleges, and utterly completely different ads now...
scams and consolidation loans.


So much of the infrastructure is the same. Re-entering into the age of
sponsored content. There was a scandal at Buzzfeed because an article critical
of Dove, a sponsor, the author, she had to leave journalism over it.

Public funding of media to create competition in media.


Subtitle is "taking back culture and power in the digital age" The subtitle is
more what I'm thinking about these days.

The way that internet and financial networks are the same, how do we get
traction in this dispersed system? I got involved in occupy when I was
writing my book. I saw Biella's tweets while she was chasing anonymous.

When occupy started, I had a romantic idea that I would "get involved and get
my hands dirty." I didn't want to stand on the sidelines and film passively. I
knew it wasn't going bring about the revolution, and that it wouldn't last
forever. I'm not going to make media, I'm going to be involved. To be involved
in movements is to be involved in communication. I realized to be involved
with movements is to make media. MLK specifically chose to protest in
Birmingham where bull conner was in charge and would react with spectacle.

There is another apocryphal story about him telling the photographer to take
pictures.


Once the occupation was over, I got involved in #strikedebt. Debt brought so
many to occupy. People buried in student/medical debt. This could unite people
that didn't otherwise have much in common, thinking about their situation in a
political context. The reason you're drowning in school debt is because there
is no public option.

The rolling jubilee launched in late '12 to buy $50K of debt to cancel $1M.
Buffalo is actually the epicenter of this now! To learn more, there's a great
book called "Bad Paper" that details this industry -
http://www.amazon.com/Bad-Paper-Chasing-Street-Underworld/dp/0374108234

We ended up raising 700K+, cancelling 33M.

We launched an org called the debt collective, on Feb 23rd. A platform for
debtors to come together and get fair terms from creditors. A collapsing
for-profit company, enrolled over 100K students at peak. It committed fraud up
and down... It would lie about job placement, bribe companies to hire people
for one day to gin up numbers... They'd say graduates had jobs in their
field...

We are fighting with the people who attended the school, launching with 15
students. The Dept of Ed propped up this criminal institution,a nd we're not
going to pay.

The gov reached out to us to met with CFPB, treasury, staff from attorney
general's office. The news has become increasingly enthusiastic. Members of
congress did the same thing. The NYT lead editorial was endorsing our
position, and crediting the strikers.

An interesting parable about using online space as a tool to come together,
but then, to build a power base that doesn't depend on massive numbers. It
started as the Corinthian 15, but now is the Corinthian 100.

Thank you!


Collaborative Discussion
====

Biella:
Who here teaches undergrads? 
Who thinks they are blindly over-enthused about digital media?

I agree. You want a book that helps, but gives a critical lens. "The People's
Platform" does it for a number of reasons. When I was reading it:
    
    "Measured, but not moderate"
    "elegant, but based on facts and studies"

One of the important things around the book, the importance put on sharing,
participation, free culture, and mobilized with facts. The over $7B spent on
advertising could be put to public use. The AP in 2009, revealed the US army
spent 4B, and employed X people for public relations!

The other passage, also points to how a lot of new media formations exist
within the shell of the old. This can be problematic when existing power
structures get transfered to the future. It shows that those entities seeking
change must be clever in how they work with existing structures.

Many chapters deal with investigative journalism, and Astrid talks about
Wikileaks. You had just visited the gulf after the BP disaster. While there
was much reporting, it was difficult for Indy media sources to get heard.

"By sitting int he boats, I realized how profoundly the decks were stacked
against Indy storytellers." The devastation, the health-risks, the work
needing to be done. Even Julian Assange was unable to act independently.
Wikileaks was originally designed around the idea that the public would make
sense of data.

That turned out to be not all true, Assange lamented.


Media are the only channels that have the size to have impact.

Motivation and resources, time and power, these are assets not evenly
distributed. These are inequalities we take into account on the new networked
playing field.

Assange was operating in the Utopian height of "put it out there" media
theory.

Had we had a rhetoric about digital media recognizing these realties from the
get-go, he maybe wouldn't have lost 4 years on this strategy. That is why the
critique Astra offers is so important. It isn't just an analysis of unequal
dynamics.


Astra
You do have to make those mistakes. One thing about the strike project, it
emerged out of a failed attempt on this "pledge of refusal" where 1M people
would sign first. Put it on the internet, and then a million people will show
up, was much less powerful than that 15 people we started with.


That first day of Occupy was pivotal for me. I saw an earlier Biella lecture
on trolling and Scientology, and I was skeptical... who didn't wanna see these
guys -- Scientology -- get trolled? When I saw occupy, I saw not nihilists or
libertarians... too much earnest drumming... 


My favorite sign of occupy, which I still cannot find on the internet said: "I
love democracy more than I hate this drum circle."

Alot has been written, and good films made, but in her journalism, she avoids
the "cautionary tales." In the context of anon, that can be true, but it
applies to any radical action. The risk-averse writing from a moral
highground, without considering how much political power actors actually have.
The ethnography, and what they learned, was really amazing. All the things
that are debated by outsiders "is it ethical to dox?" "Will there be
blowback?" These were all debated internally, and they knew the critiques that
would come from the outside.

Q: "Don't you know that rolling jubilee will not topple predatory lending???"

A: "YES. I KNOW."

The "Nerd Square" is the next place I wanna be. The "Nerd Scare"
[http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/2015/01/barrett_brown_sentencing_the_u_s_government_overreaction_to_hackers.html]
and all the crack-downs and arrests, and the real price people have paid,
often knowingly...


I wanna read a little bit, honoring the excess that social movements have to
have. If you want to create social change, you gotta be in excess of what you
are asking for:

More than any other movement, annon, and lulzsec, gives shape to a number of
nietze themes...

Biella
It has been interesting to write a book that is at once sociological, but also
taking a political stance in favor of anonymous. I've also been pinned to the
cross at times, and interestingly, I cannot believe how many journalists were
like "great book, but what bias." It has to do in part with the controversies
around anons.


Biella
When you were writing this book, I was like "whoa, is Astra trained as a
sociologist?" I'd like to hear more about your strategies, and your tactics and
goals, and once it was out, what would you have done differently?

Astra
A book is a rhetorical act? In my mind, I was hoping this would reach multiple
audiences. I was hoping for something to throw at techno-utopians, but
something teachable enough to show the basics of political economy today.

It was situating myself between the cheerleaders of tech progress, and the
naysayers who say it is making us shallow and stupid. I wanted to remind
people that the tools are embedded in realities, and we need to think about
them in context, and I will patiently remind you with piles of empirical
evidence.

It is easier to be nostalgic if you are a dude... the "good old days" of 50's
publishing... no thank you.

I spent little time in an academic context, I'm a practitioner. There is so
much happening in this, and I feel like I have a unique experience begin an
Indy film maker living by my pen. People are going to invoke these conditions,
I may as well ground the conversation and bring my own to the table.

Biella
What would you change?

Once you put in the final edit, you can go down the wormhole of regret for so
long... many writers who wrote about tech, like the Snowden revelations.
Lauren, who directed Citizen 4, I think addressing that, and the way that the
community, and we have responded to the surveillance debate less on private
sector, more on government. I can see a bit more Snowden. I would probably
expand the end where I talk about the solutions. I had an editor who told me I
could describe problems and not be prescriptive and solve them.

I would throw the same thing back at you Biella.

Biella
There are so many things I want to say, but I only have 4000 words. I wish I
had made the stakes of representing anon as an activist more clear. Because I
was seeing them so much, I'm still shocked that people don't see them as
activists. It was clear to me, after 6 years, you take it for granted.

One thing remarkable, while the state tried here and there to tag anon as
terrorists, one moment in specific, when there was a WSJ article based on
really flimsy flimsy flimsy journalistic evidence that anon had the capability
to take down critical infrastructure... it came two weeks after polish
parliamentarians took the mask to protest a copyright treaty. The government
was losing the propaganda battle, and it seemed like a last attempt.

We live in a moment when environmentalists are treated like ecoterrorists... I think
the trigger is pulled, and designation can really stick... part of the book
was to show why they are legit activists, not terrorists.

Critics are pointing fingers all the time. Mistakes are made, and I put them
front and center in the book, but then I start to catalog all the mistakes
made by journalists, and it is more remarkable. Doxing the incorrect founder
of Bitcoin, to the Rolling Stone article on rape in WV... many of the things
anon is faulted for, is happening in the News.

Am I gonna say Journalism is worthless? No!
Critique the moment, and assess it. There are moments when mistakes are made.
If I bring in that kind of journalistic perspective, we may look at it
differently.

Measuring the success of anon is hard to qualify.

Biella
If there isn't a legal change in the next year, students see it as
worthless... when occupy was dismantled, alot of people said "well, that was
useless..." which is a shame. Their spirit rises up at different times. With
anon, there are many tangible outcomes. Scientology may not be terrorizing a
great many in the population, but now critics can be public.

Another thing, that relates to our moment we're in, anon is part of a larger
trend of geeks and hackers who are willing to whistleblow, and work with the
4th estate. Anon has been part of that trend. I find it just a bit troubling
that people want measurement, in a quantified sense.

Much of what they do is "casting a shadow" and having a persona.

Biella
Too often radical movements are counterposed to non-radical movements. In the
case of anon, the number of rape cases they reported. They were working with
reporters.

Advertisers are taking advantage of this all the time. Press releases
republished as news. I'd rather live in a world where we have investigative
reporters. You can't go deep, but you can go very wide in the news cycle. I
wanted to be in something multifaceted, not just public ed, but aiming at the
levers of power to get something concrete.

You cannot imagine how much people in power appreciate these things.

Went to DC with our group, and walking around the hill, you see there are so
many other people being paid to do the same talking to officials that you are.

Biella
I was in DC when Virginia owned up to the fact that the voting machines were
insecure. Some scientists had been working for 10 years to show they were
insecure. The Comp Scientists would still have a role to play, but in anon
hacked the voting machines, that would have only taken 1 day. NGO's and
Computer Scientists could still have a role after.


Q:
Laws are set up that if anon did that, someone would have sacrificed their
life/freedom to make that info public.

Biella
IN Germany, the CCC has literally hacked things. In the US, they just throw
your ass in jail. In the Context of the US, that is a huge risk. Assange,
Manning, Snowden, they paid the price.

Q:
You have companies that professionally pen-test and hack to find vulns. We
have a large group of folks at RIT who can do this. Even if you pen-test
legally, even with permission, you can still be sent to jail.

Biella
When you take risks, there is always going to be competing forces. You're not
sure which one is going to win. There is far more a mobilized hacker
community, but Obama comes along with a much worse cyber security
initiative... this is always the case when it comes to politics. You push the
envelope, the government pushes back. With a strong enough group, but the
future is uncertain.

Only people into computers are aware of much of these issues. Already these
worlds are not separate. How do you raise these concerns for those who are not
savvy?

Biella
Molly Sauter writes about digital dissent, check her talk tomorrow at the
MAGIC Center

Astra
Even the dept of education has to agree with them, though they are taking
risks.

Q
It strikes me, having both of you on the stage, there is for some reason a
sucess in what anon is doing, but a failure in what wikileks is doing, though
they are in the same type of work. What is causing the disconnect? If there is
a failure in wikileaks, what is bringing people to work?

Biella
I think Wikileaks is a success, and has been a success for a long time. What I
really like about this passage, she was highlighting the moment Wikileaks
became sucessful, working with mainstream media. In part, because Assange was
experimenting as he went on... for some reason activists are not allowed to
fail... Snowden learned from Wikileaks. Assange was central in getting Snowden
to Russia, and helping with legal advisory. The fact that others are leaking
is more indication.

The Sony emails have been out for a while. For some reason, journalists
weren't there sifting through it. You need labor, and stable institutions to
do it. That is what I loved about the book. Much writing about FOSS , was
non-institutional labor. Python, and Debian, and Linux were institutional, but
the pundits are saying "it was peer-to-peer." which just wasn't true. Anon
isn't institutional, but they have a different role to play. You'll have some
players that are institutional, and some that are reactive and on the fly. The
way they reinvent themselves is powerful, but not all political entities do
that thankfully.


To what degree is criminalization pushes the subject matter you are working
on? Many of the people in jail have been trapped by existing laws. They try to
imagine what traffic will do next. What is the connection with
criminalization?

Astra
In some states, yes, you can lose your drivers license in some states for
example. They are taking real risks. Part of their efforts is to call
attention to the legal binds people are in economically.

One thing we're trying to do, is raise awareness of criminalization of
poverty. There is a way in which it is a crime to be poor. Courts extract fees
from the poor. Debtors prisons. It is supposedly unconstitutional to put people
into jail because they are poor. There was also a recent story in the New York
Times about North Carolina's putting people into jail for inability to pay
child support. http://t.co/uZCIBaetzZ

I'm not just thinking about dissent, but poverty. Public morality, public
outrage, builds movements. There could be a lot of traffic by making clear
that the first amendment rights to protest in analog space, does not exist in
the online space. It really is not being done outside of certain circles.

Biella
Definitely having very public campaigns has made a huge difference. One case,
Matt DeHart [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matt_DeHart] it is Kafka-esque.
Spying, fake child porn, he was entirely under public scrutiny, and what the
prosecutors were doing was *outrageous.* Criminalization has to be met with
strong campaigns, because it has a big impact on the outcome of the cases.

Q:
I'm thinking about the video you showed, the early one, with the music that
calls forth that feeling of fascism. People were posting a similar video for
the Westboro Baptist Church. That one didn't seem like a joke, and the people
posting it didn't make it seem like one either. There was some follow-up about
what happened.

There was one about ISIS, and one about Israel. They were similar. Are we
waiting for anon to follow through with their challenges? Am I waiting for
them to bring down ISIS? What is the purpose of that if it is really a joke?

Biella
At that point, anon's identity was associated with trolling. The kind of
expectation was that that video would troll, and then vanish. It mutated into
a consistent activist orientation. But the early aesthetics in those videos
carried on with their "earnest" operations. Of course they are not going to
take down ISIS, but they are trying to take them down off twitter, and
offline. It is a way of them to register their dissent.

It is not a joke. Humor was part of their political... they wanted to attack
Westboro Baptist Church, but they wanted to also troll them too. Trolling can
have a vicious side to it, right?

The joking remains, but as kind of, because it has been integrated into the
political culture. Their material is hard to read sometimes... in a day and
age when there is so much datamining and predictive analysis, you have someone
who is unpredictable.

Q:
It comes from this place of trolls. Is this something that in the political,
because it comes from non-activism, is that the true power of anon? They have
a hacker identity, is there anything for you, Astra, that other groups can
learn from Anon.

Astra
we have attack ads, right? Isn't the ultimate form of political trolling?

Biella
Many don't seek credit for what they do, and much of what they do is
traditional activism that you *would* want to take credit for. Having a
movement that forgoes fame in a culture of extreme celebrity is very
important. We're not going to let the media create one or two celebrities out
of this movement, that is powerful.

Being somewhat unpredictable, that can be effective. Culture jamming, there
are other groups that have done this, but that is something that is a really
good tactic.

Biella
Gamergate was the moment I thought the trolls were going to take the name
back, but it didn't happen. I'll say one thing, I like to describe as a big
clusterfuck. There are a lot of folks who believe earnestly in their cause,
and then a ton of troll groups feeding into it. Mapping that has been very
difficult. There are journalists and academics who have tried to interview.

Q:
When I'm on social media, I see people advocating for things, but there seems
to be a lack of response. Is the anonymity of anon, not having a leader,
actually hurts anonymous?

Astra
You can step in and not expose yourself, so I think it helps anon.

What if there had been a different paradigm, and Assange didn't have to waste
4 years. Through weak-ties on the net, we can spread memes to start
movements... we're losing the art of organizing.

I think the sort of cliche of online organizing, and that things will catch on
like viruses has set us back... there are other ways. It is wonderful for
communication, but at a certain point you have to raise the stakes and take it
to the next level. Meeting in person has been really essential to that
process.

It is better to have a small cores than a wide net, which flies in the face of
the public opinion.

Q:
Getting a million people to pledge to do, versus 15 who DID. Action that
can be amplified.

Biella
This is where hackers can learn from the Free Software Movement. Debian has
been around for 20 years, and they have an annual meeting. You can't just meet
once at a hackathon.

The resource question though, with devs who can work for companies that spend
on their conference. That is harder for a purely activist entity. One person
cannot do it, and you need a group of people over time.

Astra
A more nuanced account, correcting the myth. The "leader" of the 60's, the
myth of self-organizing today.

It is interesting for people to learn from it. You can have all the data in the
world, but if no one is making meaning from it then it is pointless.
Biella:

I was floored for many reasons, that engineers and hackers had reinvented
the law...

    This was right about the time I got a fast internet connection. I ended up
    sick for about a year, home, but I was online. By the time I got over
    that, I knew so much about FOSS, and that it should be studied
    anthropologically. I won't talk much about the book, but there is a lot
    going on in there.


    Once I was in that world, I never left. In terms of anonymousymous, the way I
    got there was extremely different. During my research, I met many people
    who protested the church of Scientology. I ignored it, until I went to
    University of Alberta, with the largest archive of Scientology in North
    America. I felt like Xenu was sending me a message...


    Secret documents were being shared on Usenet, and I started to look at
    that project, but I was secretive. I was concerned the church would come
    after me like other journalists and authors, and I was guarded, until
    anonymouss rose up to troll the church. There was a famous Tom Cruise video,
    and the church threatened suit if the publishers didn't take it down. Then
    trolled the heck out of the church, and during that campaign, they made
    the shift to activism.

    That is all I'm going to say about the background.

Molly   
    Anyone heard of The Berkman center at Harvard Law? The reason I got into
    DDoS, I was working for John Zittrain when Operation payback went down.

    News orgs would call and say "Help! What is internet!?!?" What is anonymous,
    what is DDoS, what is Wikileaks, everything is on fire... Johnathon said
    "I'll handle Wikileaks, you handle the weird hacker stuff..." It didn't
    stop being interesting for me, it just kept on going. I'm interested in
    Online politics and dissent. I got to MIT, and said "I'm going to write
    my thesis on 5 things" and they were like "no, pick one" and I was like
    "Ok, then DDoS!"

    IN 2010, many people thought that this hadn't been done before, but
    cursory research showed it had. I'm interested in disruption in society
    that believes it is a discursive society. I think it is really important.

    I have much info about online security, and freedom and rights, and cyber
    war policy.


Kocsen
    Given your interest in DDos, what is your opinion of the recent GitHub
    DDoS?

Molly
    I'm reading a lot for my comprehensives right now, which means I can tell
    you a whole lot about theory, but couldn't tell you what happened in the
    news last week :P

    People often, one of the most knee-jerk responses on DDoS, is "this is
    censorship." I say, No, this is about power relationships. What is
    happening here, is censorship. The state coming in and putting a block.

Biella
    when activists target PayPal or Mastercard, they are taking down a blog,
    or other place where there isn't much processing. Even if activists give
    it up, the state will not. It can be used legitimately, and in the book,
    makes a great case for why.

Molly
    it is a tactic, amoral. Some people want to ignore individual actions

Amit
    This is an argument, in libertarian circles, of ideological purity. What
    molly said about power implications is essential. Can reverse racism
    exist? It is a stupid question in power relations. You have to think about
    who has power in a circumstance, and discourse gets muddled. That is huge.

Pharas
    There isn't a moral implication?
    I tend to think of picketing, and preventing people from getting to
    something in that sense, you're saying there is no morality tied to it.

Molly
    there is no automatic moral judgement, you have to look at it in context.
    One example is actually immoral. Basque. In the 90's they were excited
    about blowing stuff up. It was violent, they were super unpopular. There
    was an ISP that focused on hosting controversial political consent. There
    was an action that was condoned by News orgs and others, which they
    backtracked on later. The ISP eventually took down the site, which is
    censorship, and preventing an entity from functioning.

    DDoS'ing the PayPal blog, which went down for a couple days? That is not
    an immoral use. It doesn't prevent PayPal from processing credit cards, or
    freezing accounts for no reason. They can still communicate with the
    press. If anything, it is drawing your attention away.

    Indirect form of activism. I wouldn't get hung-up on the assignation of
    morality to tactic, but the analysis of the context around it.

ChrisKnepper
    I like your point that anonymouss went to activism with Scientology DDoS'es.
    Why do yo think that event shifted it to activism?

Biella
    There are many different layers of answer. My first initial answer, was a
    culturalist typical-anthro answer. There is a politics in controlling
    transgression, but it is not hospitable to activism. My first answer is
    Scientology in some ways the perfect nemesis to the geek/hacker world. It
    is a religion of technology that doesn't work, and science that is science
    fiction. A hackers worst nightmare would be "honey, I'm going to be a
    Scientologists." Hackers are anti-proprietary, Scientology is very
    proprietary. Scientology has the "one" technology, which is very rigid.

    Yeah, you have trolls confronting their perfect nemesis. They organized
    street protests, and how they did that is a fascination story. It had to
    do with a viral video, but it was humorous and compelling.
    Ex-Scientologists reached out too.

    Anonymous, which had become activist would ONLY protest Scientology, but
    now, it is *any* political purpose.

Molly
    Scientology is actually bad and evil. They cause badness to happen, and
    have a net negative effect on the universe. If we are going to protest
    them, then why not cyberbullys?

Biella
    For years, then there was the birth of a new network AnonOps, which
    embraced DDoS and hacking. They came into being somewhat accidentally.
    They felt that DDoS was a legitimate way. There was a historical moment,
    aplex boasted they DDoS'd the pirate bay for a client.

    The savvy person trying to coral the masses took advantage of the moment.
    A digital direct action win, that cemented the transition.

    Their support of Wikileaks in operation payback catapulted them into the
    international media spotlight.

    The final one, one could imagine that the ones that rose up to support
    Wikileads and file sharing, but the global revolutions in 2011, and the
    Arab spring, and Occupy, and Wisconsin, they got involved in all of it.

Biella
    It is an exaggeration to say there are no stable points, but yes, it is
    not what it was before. It was a group that was fairly stable where
    people knew eachother. To see so many different nodes now... there are
    stable relations between stable groups that are hard to map, which is
    easy to proliferate because anyone can take the name.

Beru
    I always thought of DDoS as utilizing botnets? Are we talking about
    voluntarily contributing or unknowingly contributing?

Molly
    The Electronic Disturbance Theatre, had a Zapatista plug net. You clicked
    the institution of your choice, and you picked one at the appointed time,
    and you get a "congratulations" message. That tool was opensourced, and
    used by other groups.

    It was the 90's, so there were other groups who said "go to
    Whitehouse.gov, and hit refresh for 20 minutes..." With Anonymous now,
    operation payback on the one had LOIC (fucking Hive Mind mode) and you
    could voluntary participate. That was a way for people to participate.

    There were people who "camped" the twitter profiles putting out info. But
    there were also illicit botnets that did contribute a lot of firepower. In
    that case, it wasn't equal, but a diversity.

Molly   
    I don't think it is a ethical to use resources that weren't allocated
    voluntarily, but I don't think it is ethical for charities to use their
    donations 90% for administrative overhead either!

Biella
    You needed the resource to make the action work, but operation mega
    upload used a different technique. It was based on scripts that made
    requests that would "stall," and didn't require botnets. Ideally, you'd
    have something that worked effectively, allowing people to participate in
    ethical ways. The botnets were deceptive, but they had to! The tool people
    using "LOIC" didn't have privacy protection.

    I sincerely think the organizers thought that with so many people.

Molly
    Electronic Disturbance Theatre came with a long list of caveats. "if you
    participate, you may get visited by police." They were very conscientious
    with putting that info out there.

    Anonymous was much more broadly based than EDT. Many of them were not
    street activists, and didn't know about all this training. They didn't
    have context, but that doesn't excuse the fact that their tool put people
    in danger. That is the major ethical lapse. Use of botnets was a mistake
    of ethical.

h2g2guy
    There was discussion to make DDoS a legit protest activity. Do you think
    the government will ever recognize that?

Molly
    A sit-in is also illegal... but it is recognized socially as a tactic of
    activism. It is a "this is what protest 'looks' like" It is a catch and
    release system. They don't want you to sit where you are sitting, and they
    move you. If you are not too much of a dick in the car, you typically
    don't get charged. Don't take this as permission to go out and get
    arrested... the government isn't going to come out and say "DDoS is fine"
    but a legal recognition within the processes of the system.

    This won't happen until we get to a case to go through the course. We're
    not going to get a federal judge saying "this is acceptable speech under
    the first amendment" since the PayPal settlement. Our system runs on what
    happens in the past, and we need that to happen first.

Biella 
    It is probably not going to happen unless there is incredible political
    pressure to change it. The folks in the PayPal 14 got off pretty light,
    but some can't get jobs, legal costs were tremendous... if you look at
    other arrests, Barret Brown participated as a journalist, and he was a
    very colorful character, with many roles. He wanted to get information
    that hackers got from hacking into things out. He was arrested and charged
    with 13 different counts, including sharing a link in IRC. The link was to
    a pastebin with stolen credit cards. He got charged with interstate
    trafficking and credit card fraud. We wasn't using the information, but
    was interested in the information in the emails that Stratfor had in their
    hack. He was facing 100 years, which got whittled down to 3. He threatened
    an FBI agent on Video, which he actually did. Another thing was he hid
    laptops during a search warrant, don't do that. But the third one, was
    chilling. After the hack, he offered to redact the names, offering to do
    it responsibly as a journalist. That was considered "accessory after the
    fact." Helping to redact the names was a charge he got convicted for. The
    judge said "you got too close to the hackers." He has to pay over a
    million dollar fine, even though he didn't use any of that credit card
    data.

    More of our info will come from whistle-blowers, and if you interact, you
    can get in big trouble. The legal culture does not recognize this.

Molly
    Legal system in US runs on precedent, and plea deals. 90-95% of cases are
    plead out... the system would be swamped and couldn't function. With Barret
    Brown, he was facing 100 years. You are faced with laws that are passed,
    and instead of judicial arm saying "wow congress, that is a shitty law,
    let's fix it." Instead you let threats scare people out of judicial, we're
    stomping out the immune system of government.

AJman
    will we ever see the CCFA change?

Molly
    Here's the thing about supreme court test cases... they show up when the
    context is ready. When you have someone fight their way up through the
    federal circuit decision. The right test cases show up, but they won't
    until someone with enough anger, like Weev, will make their life about
    fucking with the US Government for 5 years.

Biella
    The tough thing is, they keep you in jail here. You can imagine being
    released on bail, and going through it, but here, you are treated like
    such a criminal right away, it is really difficult. Because of Arron
    Swartz' suicide, there was much publicity. The hacker community is a
    privileged community, and compared to other groups getting screwed over,
    we can imagine it maybe going "the hacker way" but it is tough.

Molly
    This is why so many people get angry with folks like Sabu. The undercover
    cops. If it is that, or 150 years in jail, you pick ratting on your
    friends because you are a human.

Pharas
    Is there a congressional way?

Molly
    Do you have a million dollars?

Pharas
    Judicial review was sort of tacked on after the fact itself.

Molly
    Maybe that is how it started, but that is not how it is now.
    My viewpoint is, if you are not the Koch brothers, you are being
    systemically moved out of politics, and priced out of the governance of
    your own state and municipality.

    The judicial system helps to protect against that.

Pharas
    it's not though

Molly
    Sure, you can go make your own country.
    What Larry Lessig is doing, is not working super well though...

Biella  
    Naomi Kleins' book "this changes everything"

    The situation is so dire, and electorally, it is extremely hard. Simply
    relying on the market to come up with tech solutions isn't going to work.
    Some of the most progressive cases in the 60's, came because of the wider
    political culture. It depends on the culture independent of the
    government. There must be a vibrant external grassroots initiatives
    pushing on the political milieu.

    Tonight, I'm going to pitch Astrid Taylor, involved with a group called
    #Strikedebt. Students who owe loans to Corinthian, are on strike. They are
    working with the Department of Ed, but also doing direct action. It is a
    good example of how you can work through government, but not through your
    votes, to affect change.

Molly
    The judicial branch is "supposed' to be yours. If you wanna get depressed,
    watch the documentary called "hot coffee."

Fortnight
    When does news become history?

Biella
    In part, when you right a book ;)

Molly
    I'm a big proponent of "someone is wrong on the internet."
    So, as soon as it can be cited?

Biella
    it is so weird. Wikileaks was a very dramatic actor in the geopolitical
    stage, then it imploded a bit, and then the news orgs declared Wikileaks
    "dead." We saw this with Snowden!

    The news does not like to see things as history, but declare things as
    "over."

    There are platforms now, thankfully, to push against it. But theorizing
    the present is difficult.


Molly
    People were reporting on this like the pentagon papers never happened...
    That ahistoricity is a hallmark of journalism unfortunately.
Molly Sauter
@OddLetters

researcher/writer/advocate of the internetz with a z


AP
    I'd like to welcome everyone to the latest installment of the MAGIC
    Speaker series. One of the folks who helps us do this is Evan Sellinger.
    Thanks to him for helping us do that. We had a great lunch with Molly on a
    number of topics that resonate throughout the speaker series this year.

Sellinger
    I went to look online, and though I know Molly, I forget where she is even
    a post-doc? But that was because she is still working on her PhD! The
    reason we're so excited is to push the conversation to where
    tech/sociology is headed. Molly is a triple-threat. Few know the social
    theory, and the content knowledge of DDoS activism, and perhaps no one
    else knows more about all three.


Molly

I'm a 2nd year phD student at McGill. It is just as cold here as it is in
Montreal, which is a nice, same, weather thing...


My latest book I'm going to talk to you about it. The book is also available
for free on my website. You wanna download it and buy a copy sometime in the
future, no hard feelings. Anonymous' December Operation Payback was their
first exposure to DDoS by activists. Was it terrorism? Was the internet on
fire? No one knew. DDoS, repeated requests on websites, had been covered
extensively in 2010, but in a cursory or incorrect way. It opened the door to
civil disobedience, but was far from the first use. It has been in use for
almost 20 years, from Zapatistas, to trademark disputes.

Place DDoS actions, into a historical and theoretical context in it's
potential for ethical practice. The internet attracts as a central ear of
organizing. Online, people sign petitions, investigate, amplify, donate, and
show support. As familiar as these tools are, the equivalent practices in the
online space, there is room for actions like occupations and sit-ins. Large
scale peaceable expression.

Electro-hippies, or Electronic Disturbance Theatre, through action, legitimize
this action. This forces disruptive activism into conflict with private
property. Free speech fighting with corporations. In physical world, activists
can take it to the streets, which is protected, like Skoki or DC. There is no
"street" on the internet. This rampant privatization face challenges, and the
disruptive activities online. The two domains are treated as the same. 

Charges of censorship are often thrown into the mix. "can't you come up with a
way to protest that doesn't step on someone's toes?" We've allowed the
corruption of the public sphere and it has none of the protections we expect.
There is nowhere online to stand with her friends and her sign. She can set up
a dedicated blog, but there is nowhere to stand up to a corporate giant.
Collective action becomes collective trespass.

At it's most basic level, a Distributed Denial of Service Attack prevents
communication. Complex or sophisticated tools are not required. A group of
people refreshing a page repeatedly for a period of time is a manual version,
which did happen to Whitehouse.gov in the early 90's.

One automated method, a ping-flood...

Another thing worth mentioning is botnets, which is the only way now, to bring
down a well supported corporate site. Instead what you need is either
volunteer based, or more commonly, an illicit botnet which you can purchase on
the dark net for like $50, which can be extremely effective.

To defend a DDoS is expensive. It is possible for a participant to spoof IP,
and turn it into a big game of whack-a-mole. If across many machines, it can
be small amounts of traffic.

Akamai or Cloudflare rent server space to corporations that have poorly
estimated how popular they will be, or are targeted by DDoS. Because DDoS is
so expensive, ISP's will say "my my my website, you are very pricey to
host..." so you get secondarily denied service after the initial action.


Why did I spend the years writing this book? DDoS let's us talk about
disruptive action in the online space. Freedom of speech, property rights, and
brings into clarity of detail, what assembly means online. What it means to
assemble a group.

The news media is the modern arbiter of public attention. Whose actions are
worth paying attention to. If the views presented are too far outside
mainstream for viewers or advertisers, then those ideas may not be aired or
debated in the open.

"Full and free discussion of ideas even we hate..."

An unbroken broadcast of status quo... others have presented interpretations
of the first amendment on the right to hear, and the right to be heard.
Internet has increased soapboxes, but the audience has not. You can avoid
unpopular opinion, and dissenters are being diminished.

This is a complicated process, activists trying to get the attention of the
mainstream. Resorting to extreme tactics in hopes of being heard. Disruption
is part of the modern repertoire of contention. In the physical world, it may
look like a sit-in. The status quo of the flow of information must be
disrupted. It is not he most important in all cases. Disruption.

It is useful to consider that not all speech is silenced. Disrupted actions
that are not accompanied by effective public messaging, risk being
misinterpreted or ignored.


Policing Protest in the United States, 
Speech out of doors

4 kinds of public space

1) traditional
2) designated
3) non-public
4) private property

The traditional, is the most public. Public streets, sidewalks, and parks.
It is the "Most Free."

Private Property is the most restrictive--the Owner can actually limit speech.

Electro-hippies did this around the Battle in Seattle, attempted to shut down
the email server the WTO was using to run that meeting. Their action can be
seen to reassert the internet as a public forum against private property. This
comes into direct conflict with the private/controlled space of the WTO. This
struggle for online space, mirrors the physical space where the black block
collided with corporate capitalism. They got into lots of fights with cops,
that is what that means.

Digital enabled activism, necessitates a physicalized view of the internet.
Websites become static containers, and maintain presence on the network. This
presence remains non-responsive but branded way, of the down site itself. This
is a occupy informatic structure.

This has a transitory

Destruction, in the case of physical world, and disruption in the online
world. The available made unavailable. The statements of those at the scene
feed into the spectacle. Th hope is that the public is drawn out of passive
consumption, into action. DDoS actions or web site defacements, ask why they
can't be moved to another space like "http://yourspeechspace.com"

In 2004, a federal judge described a Demonstration Zone as an affront to the
first amendment. Symbolic or central to a specific cause (contested places)
Facilitate messages, and add symbolic value, or connect to specific audiences.
Isolated demonstration zones, severely hamper activists ability to get their
message to those most relevant.

The open-airing of dissenting views is to deny democracy, and hamstrings public
debate. Temporary disruption would not be possible if you were not access to a
website.

This is one of the earliest DDoS tools, Zapatista plugnet. Electronic
Disturbance Theatre. This is specific language, with scheduled actions. From
4pm-6pm, all you gotta do is go to a web based tool, and click on an applet.

Not only do you get the sense as a protester when you bring something down,
you are also communicating with the target.

LOIC
If we have time during the qa, I'd like to point out more, but for one, now.
you type in the URL or IP. You can add a message if you want, and then click
"I'ma chargin' my laza"

HiveMind mode

    Instead of you sitting at your computer, and following the twitter account
    that hasn't been shut down, you can leave. It is an installed tool on your
    computer, and you have given control of your computer to a central IRC
    Server. This is a voluntary botnet. This allows you to have a life. You
    don't have to be sitting a basement, you can pay attention to all the
    stuff around you. You can say "I believe in this cause, and you use my
    computing power how you see fit." This allows people to participate,
    without being part of the anon culture, which can be problematic at
    times...


What is the reaction of this type of activism? The reaction has not been
overly sympathetic. Criminal. Even "Cyberwar." This has major implications to
online protest. Media coverage matters. EDT was repeatedly compared to
cyberterrorism and terrorism during their campaigns. It focused on the
spectacle of the incident. Media coverage typically focuses on the
"anti-social" stereotype of hackers. This supports the negative image
discrediting DDoS as activism.

Criminal perception fits into actions. In the WTO action in '99, the
Electro-hippies operated in a self-generated frame. They attempted to apply
the frame to their direct action, it was novel. The distributed dissent was
critical. Recognition of this frame was necessary to be viewed as legit
activism. They were labelled. They lived in the UK, so they were protected
from a lot of US regime nonsense. As a result of the action, the EDT was
labelled as "terrorists." We run the risk of losing legitimate DDoS.

Other analysts paid attention. Denning's testimony brings to the fore, a number
of roles of the state. Self-identification.

If the online zone is inaccessible.

When the relevant judge is the target of protest, it is in their interest to
reclassify. A significant case, Liberta.de

Before pleading out, faced 2 counts, each could result in 15 years and 500K
each. Potential sentences are high compared to other activist actions. Sit-ins
typically result in a charge of trespass. A fine of not more than $100, and
not more than 30 days in jail.

DDoS are prosecuted under the CFAA. Along with other computer crimes, are
classified as Fraud. Adjustments that involve the number of financial losses,
and number of victims.

For an individual

Q:  it is not decentralized, it is more centralized. I am a harbinger of doom.
I don't have a kludge for that.


Contract law is increasingly becoming the primary mode of interaction between
individuals. They were special things. You didn't need a contract to interact
with a grocer, or the person who teaches their children, or get their
newspaper. Now you do. To even get your internet to your house, or to use the
internet at the library, or the hotel.

Contract law is not intended to empower you, but lawyers, and people with
lawyers. Go watch "Hot Coffee" and learn about binding arbitration clauses.


If you guys had to guess, what do you think the percentage of cases that go to
criminal court, how many are plead out. 50%? 80%?

Around 95% of cases are plead out!

Because of specifically in this case, computer crime, but you can talk about
any in the federal sentencing guidelines.

Joint Sufferable Liability

When you actually plead out, you are still responsible for restitution
payments, which are not even criminal fines. This is a way for corporations to
extract fees on free speech.
